chore(curriculum): add pseudo-classes and elements transcripts (#58474)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lecture-working-with-pseudo-classes-and-pseudo-elements-in-css/672bbed37c6f51aa3a15e78c.md

Watch the lecture video and answer the questions below.

# --transcript--

What are pseudo-elements, and how do they work?

One of the most interesting aspects of CSS is the use of pseudo-elements. In this context, "pseudo" means "not real", so pseudo-elements are virtual or synthetic elements that don't directly match any actual HTML elements. They allow you to style specific parts of an element or insert content without adding extra HTML.

> To apply a pseudo-element, attach it to the original element's selector using a double colon `::`. Note that the selector can be any type, such as a class or ID selector. Here's what the basic syntax of pseudo-elements looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply a pseudo-element, attach it to the original element's selector using a double colon (`::`). Note that the selector can be any type, such as a class or ID selector. Here's what the basic syntax of pseudo-elements looks like:
```

Watch the lecture video and answer the questions below.

# --transcript--

What are pseudo-elements, and how do they work?

> One of the most interesting aspects of CSS is the use of pseudo-elements. In this context, “pseudo” means “not real”, so pseudo-elements are virtual or synthetic elements that don't directly match any actual HTML elements. They allow you to style specific parts of an element or insert content without adding extra HTML.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the most interesting aspects of CSS is the use of pseudo-elements. In this context, "pseudo" means "not real", so pseudo-elements are virtual or synthetic elements that don't directly match any actual HTML elements. They allow you to style specific parts of an element or insert content without adding extra HTML.
```

> To apply a pseudo-element, attach it to the original element's selector using a double colon `::`. Note that the selector can be any type, such as a class or ID selector.
> 
> Here's what the basic syntax of pseudo-elements looks like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To apply a pseudo-element, attach it to the original element's selector using a double colon `::`. Note that the selector can be any type, such as a class or ID selector. Here's what the basic syntax of pseudo-elements looks like:
```

```css
selector::pseudo-element {

>  property: value;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  property: value;
```

}
```

This double colon is what distinguishes pseudo-elements from pseudo-classes, which use a single colon.

Pseudo-elements allow you to style specific parts of an element's content or insert content before or after it, but they cannot exist independently. The element to which a pseudo-element is attached is called its originating element.

Let's start by looking at examples for the `::before` and `::after` pseudo-elements. As their names suggest, `::before` lets you insert content just before the element's content while `::after` lets you insert content after it.

Here is an example of a button element:

```html
<button class="cta-button">Learn More</button>
```

> In the CSS, we will use absolute positioning and the `::before` pseudo-element to add a star before the button's “Learn More” text. You will learn more about absolute positioning in future videos.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the CSS, we will use absolute positioning and the `::before` pseudo-element to add a star before the button's `Learn More` text. You will learn more about absolute positioning in future videos.
```

```css
.cta-button {
  background-color: lightseagreen;
  color: white;
  border: none;
  padding: 10px 20px;
  cursor: pointer;
  position: relative;
}

.cta-button::before {
  content: "⭐";
  position: absolute;
  left: 3px;
  top: 8px;
  font-size: 0.75rem;
}
```

> The `content` property is used to represent the content you wish to add before the button text. In this example, we are adding a star. You'll notice that you can not only insert content but also style it.
> 
> Here's an example of the `::after` pseudo-element with the same button:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `content` property is used to represent the content you wish to add before the button text. In this example, we are adding a star. You'll notice that you cannot only insert content but also style it. Here's an example of the `::after` pseudo-element with the same button:
```

```css
.cta-button {
  background-color: orange;
  border: none;
  padding: 10px 30px;
  cursor: pointer;
  position: relative;
}

.cta-button::after {
  content: '➡️';
  position: absolute;
  right: 5px;
  bottom: 6px;
  font-size: 1.125rem;
  transition: transform 0.3s ease;
}
```

> In the `::after` pseudo-element, the `transition` property is used to animate changes over 0.3 seconds with an easing effect, creating a smooth and gradual transformation rather than a sudden one. You will learn more about the transition property in future videos. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `::after` pseudo-element, the `transition` property is used to animate changes over `0.3` seconds with an easing effect, creating a smooth and gradual transformation rather than a sudden one. You will learn more about the `transition` property in future videos. 
```

> You can also attach a pseudo-class to the content you insert into another content with the `::before` and `::after` pseudo-elements. For example, a hover state for the content. 
> 
> Here's an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also attach a pseudo-class to the content you insert into another content with the `::before` and `::after` pseudo-elements. For example, a hover state for the content. Here's an example:
```

```css
.cta-button {
  background-color: orange;
  border: none;
  padding: 10px 30px;
  cursor: pointer;
  position: relative;
}

.cta-button::after {
  content: "➡️";
  position: absolute;
  right: 5px;
  bottom: 6px;
  font-size: 1.125rem;
  transition: transform 0.3s ease;
}

.cta-button:hover::after {
  transform: translateX(2px);
}
```

> With `transform: translateX(2px)` in the hover state, the content gets pushed to the right by 2px any time the user hovers on the button. The transition property in the `::after` itself ensures the process takes 0.3s.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With `transform: translateX(2px)` in the hover state, the content gets pushed to the right by `2px` any time the user hovers on the button. The transition property in the `::after` itself ensures the process takes `0.3s`.
```

> That's what the transform property does – it allows you to rotate, skew, scale, or translate an element in a particular direction. You will learn more about that in future videos.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That's what the `transform` property does – it allows you to rotate, skew, scale, or translate an element in a particular direction. You will learn more about that in future videos.
```

> In the next example, we will look at the `::first-letter` pseudo-element. The `::first-letter` pseudo-element targets the first letter of an element's content, allowing you to style it.
> 
> Here's an example of some paragraph text:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the next example, we will look at the `::first-letter` pseudo-element. The `::first-letter` pseudo-element targets the first letter of an element's content, allowing you to style it. Here's an example of some paragraph text:
```

```html
<p>freeCodeCamp lets you learn to code without having to pay.</p>
```

If we want to style the first letter, we can use the `::first-letter` pseudo-element like this:

```css
p::first-letter {

>  font-size: 4rem;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  font-size: 4rem;
```

}
```

In the last example, we will look at is the `::marker` pseudo-element which lets you select the marker, bullet or numbering of list items for styling. The `::marker` pseudo-element offers a way to enhance your website's brand identity by customizing list markers to match your color scheme.

Here's an example of an unordered list and an ordered list:

```html
<ul>

>    <li>Unordered list item 1</li>
>    <li>Unordered list item 2</li>
>    <li>Unordered list item 3</li>
>    <li>Unordered list item 4</li>
> </ul>
> 
> <ol>
>    <li>Ordered list item 1</li>
>    <li>Ordered list item 2</li>
>    <li>Ordered list item 3</li>
>    <li>Ordered list item 4</li>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <li>Unordered list item 1</li>
  <li>Unordered list item 2</li>
  <li>Unordered list item 3</li>
  <li>Unordered list item 4</li>
</ul>

<ol>
  <li>Ordered list item 1</li>
  <li>Ordered list item 2</li>
  <li>Ordered list item 3</li>
  <li>Ordered list item 4</li>
```

</ol>
```

To change the list item's marker color and size, you can use the `::marker` pseudo-element like this:

```css
li::marker {

>  color: crimson;
>  font-size: 1.5em;
>  font-weight: bold;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  color: crimson;
  font-size: 1.5em;
  font-weight: bold;
```

}
```

> In this lecture video, we have covered only a few pseudo elements. But there are many more like the `::placeholder`, `::spelling-error` and `::selection` that I encourage you to explore on your own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this lecture video, we have covered only a few pseudo-elements. But there are many more like the `::placeholder`, `::spelling-error` and `::selection` that I encourage you to explore on your own.
```
